---
title: Publications
---

---
## Conferences

- **K. Kumar** and M. A. Erinin, *Residence time of droplets generated by breaking waves*, 78th Annual Meeting of the Division of Fluid Dynamics, 2025, USA.  

- L. Shemer and **K. Kumar**, *The effect of surface roughness induced by mean turbulent water flow on excitation of waves by wind*, 77th Annual Meeting of the Division of Fluid Dynamics, 2024, USA.  

- **K. Kumar** and L. Shemer, *Wind waves evolution in presence of current under impulsive wind forcing*, 1st European Fluid Dynamics Conference (EFDC), 2024, Germany.  

- L. Shemer and **K. Kumar**, *On direct measurements of growth rates of fetch-limited young wind waves*, 1st European Fluid Dynamics Conference (EFDC), 2024, Germany.  

- L. Shemer and **K. Kumar**, *Spatial Evolution of young wind waves under steady wind forcing*, ICTAM-2024, Korea.  

- **K. Kumar** and L. Shemer, *On spatial evolution of young wind waves under steady-wind forcing in presence of current*, Wind waves in the earth system (WISE)-2024, France.  

- L. Shemer and **K. Kumar**, *Effect of mean current on spatial evolution and directional spreading of young wind-waves*, 3rd International Workshop on Waves, Storm Surges, and Coastal Hazards, 2023, USA.  

- **K. Kumar** and L. Shemer, *Direct estimates of wind-wave growth rates by single-point measurements*, Wind waves in the earth system (WISE)-2023, USA.  

- M. Geva, **K. Kumar**, and L. Shemer, *The Turbulent Boundary Layer in Air Over Young Wind-Wave in Co- and Counter-Wind Water Current*, Wind waves in the earth system (WISE)-2023, USA.  

- **K. Kumar** and L. Shemer, *Young wind waves on along- and counter-wind current*, European Fluid Mechanics Conference (EFMC) 14, 2022, Greece.  

- **K. Kumar**, S. K. Singh, and L. Shemer, *Measurements of directional wave spectra in a wind-wave tank*, Wind waves in the earth system (WISE)-2022, France.  

<!-- Skipped 2021 one because it was commented out in your source -->

- V.T. Mantripragada, **K. Kumar**, P. Kumar and S. Sarkar, *Modeling of powder production during centrifugal atomization*, Molten-2020+1, Korea.  

- J. Barode, **K. Kumar**, V.T. Mantripragada, L. Sahoo, M. Mukherjee, L. Neelakantan, and S. Sarkar, *Fluidization of red mud fines in a reduction atmosphere: recovery of Fe*, INALT-2020, India (Paper Presentation).  

- V.T. Mantripragada, **K. Kumar**, P. Kumar, and S. Sarkar, *Modeling of droplet formation during centrifugal atomization process*, The first India-Japan Workshop on Science and Technology in Ironmaking and Steelmaking-2019, Japan.  
