---
title: "Research"
---

## Research

My research expertise lies in experimental fluid mechanics, with a particular emphasis on multiphase flows. During my doctoral work at Tel Aviv University and now in my postdoctoral research at the University of Michigan, my focus has been on two-phase flows, particularly air–water interactions in controlled laboratory settings.

As a Postdoctoral Research Fellow in the [Erinin Research Group](https://erinin.engin.umich.edu/) at the **University of Michigan**, I am currently studying droplet generation and dynamics in wave-breaking, both in the presence and absence of mean wind flow.

---
### Residence time of droplets generated by breaking waves

Investigating the time of flight of droplets generated by a mechanically generated plunging breaker and proposing a transport model to capture the droplet dynamics

*Related publications*
- **k. Kumar**, & M. A. Erinin (2025). **[Residence time of droplets generated by breaking waves](https://archive.aps.org/dfd/2025/z31/1/)**. *APS-DFD*

---
### Effect of mean flow profile in-air and in-water on the growth rate of young wind-waves

The generation and growth of wind waves are re-examined using linear viscous shear flow instability theory by solving the coupled in-air and in-water Orr-Sommerfeld (OS) equations. To enable comparison with the available laboratory observations, model simulations are performed for a wide range of wavelengths spanning the gravity-capillary and gravity wave regimes typical of such experiments. The sensitivity of the results to key modeling assumptions is investigated, including the friction velocity, the surface drift velocity at the air-water interface, as well as the shapes of velocity profiles in air and in water, which are modeled using the mixing-length approach. Both airflow over an initially smooth surface and over a surface modified by the emergence of fast-growing short ripples and thus effectively rough, are considered. A detailed energy budget analysis, based on eigenfunctions of the coupled Orr-Sommerfeld equations across different wavelengths, provides further insight into the mechanisms governing energy transfer from wind to water waves under diverse flow conditions.

*Related publications*
- **k. Kumar**, & L. Shemer (2025). **Shear flow instability analysis of young wind waves: coupled air-water Orr-Sommerfeld framework guided by experiment**, *J. Fluid Mech., under review.*

---
### Wind-waves in the presence of a mean water current

The spatial evolution of various statistical parameters of fetch-limited waves generated by steadily blowing wind over mean water flow in a wind-wave flume is investigated experimentally.

*Related publications*
- **k. Kumar**, & L. Shemer (2024b). **[Laboratory study of the effect of mean water current on the evolution of young wind waves](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/journal-of-fluid-mechanics/article/laboratory-study-of-the-effect-of-mean-water-current-on-the-evolution-of-young-wind-waves/7CFB2EB2322643C965ADF236D6B2CCC6)**, *J. Fluid Mech.*, 996, A21
- **k. Kumar**, & L. Shemer (2023). **[Turbulent Boundary Layer Profiles in Airflow over Young Wind Waves in Co- and Counter-Wind Water Current](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0142727X23001091)**, *Int. J. Heat Fluid Flow*, 103, 109210

---
### On the direct measurement of growth rates of fetch-limited wind-waves

The present laboratory study accounts for multiple co-existing statistically stationary random frequency harmonics. Single-point synchronous measurements of the instantaneous surface elevation and of its along-wind slope component are performed by optical methods at numerous locations. Assuming exponential spatial growth, the phase shift between the surface elevation and surface slope at each frequency is related to the spatial growth rate of each harmonic. The accumulated data also enable quantitative analysis of the sheltering phenomenon. The essential difference between the spatial and the temporal wind-wave evolution cases is discussed.

*Related publications*
**k. Kumar**, & L. Shemer (2024a). **[Spatial growth rates of young wind waves under steady wind forcing](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/journal-of-fluid-mechanics/article/spatial-growth-rates-of-young-wind-waves-under-steady-wind-forcing/62EE0E500CE3B06045F3F4872D3913F5)**, *J. Fluid Mech.*, 996, A21

---
### Measurements of directional wave spectra in a wind-wave tank

Synchronous single-point measurements of the instantaneous surface elevation and of two components of the surface slope in a wind-wave tank are carried out using a high-speed camera and a laser slope gauge.

*Related publications*
**k. Kumar**, S. K. Singh, & L. Shemer (2022). **[Directional characteristics of spatially evolving young waves under steady wind](https://journals.aps.org/prfluids/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevFluids.7.014801)**, *Phys. Rev. Fluids*, 7, 014801


---
### Evolution of waves in a horizontal circular pipe

Different wavy regimes in stratified air–water pipe flow are determined for a wide range of gas and liquid flow rates in a 10m long horizontal pipe with a 1" diameter.  

*Related publications*
**k. Kumar**, A. Freshtman, D. Barnea, & L. Shemer (2021). **[Evolution of waves in a horizontal pipe propagating on a surface of a liquid film sheared by gas](https://pubs.aip.org/aip/pof/article-abstract/33/6/062115/1065564/Evolution-of-waves-in-a-horizontal-pipe?redirectedFrom=fulltext)*, Phys. Fluids, 33, 062115


---
### Other interesting side projects
- [An analytical approximation of the wall-jet in a moving stream](projects/An analytical approximation of the wall-jet in a moving stream.pdf)
- Turbulent characteristics, time scales, and correlation in a combined wave-current flow
- [Gravity waves retrieval from sea surface elevation images using a convolutional neural network](projects/Gravity waves retrieval from sea surface elevation images using convolution neural network.pdf)
- Numerical analysis of variation of groove depth on hydrothermal characteristics of the circular microchannel with rectangular and circular grooves
